All right here's our first concept check problem says a battery is used to light bulbs is shown right.
We light this right bulb a second bulb is then connected by closing a switch and the question is what
happens to the bulbs over here.
So this one was originally lit and what happens when I close the switch and we have a whole bunch of
choices about the brightness of the bulbs.
OK.
So for all these problems here is that the brightness is related to the amount of current flowing through
it.
OK.
So just think about it like that the more current that flows through a light bulb the brighter it's
going to get.
So the way you kind of tackle this problem is say well we have a potential difference here we have a
voltage and current is initially flowing like this.
Actually you can use Ohm's law here use a loop rule but you know that the voltage across any branch
here has to be the same.
So let's imagine that the voltage of the battery is V.
OK.
And imagine this light bulb here has a resistance R.
So the amount of current that you're going to get flowing through this bulb when the switch is open
is going to be divided by far.
All right.
Well the next part is what happens now.
What happens when you close the switch when you close the switch.
Well now you can have current in this other branch right.
Because you have a finite resistance and it's the same bulb.
So the resistance here is the same.
The next thing you should know is that.
So we have our current that's also going to flow in this branch.
Actually if you apply Ohm's law again if you apply Ohm's law once the switch is close if you apply Ohm's
law going around this left hand loop and you go around in the counter clockwise direction again what
you're going to find is v equals to whatever current is in this branch.
Let's call it to and the resistances are so you're going to have are multiplied by two.
So what do we get if we get that the current I is simply the voltage divided by the resistance which
is the same right.
You notice it's the same.
So in this case if the current is the same it automatically means that the brightness has to stay the
same.
So the one that kind of tells us that says the light bulbs brightness stays the same there is no reason
for this bulb here to switch the voltage across it is always the same.
OK.
And both bulbs are going to have the same brightness because they have the same current flowing through
it.
So really this one here is the hopes.
So I picked the right pick the wrong one here really.
Number four here's the best choice.
All right.
The bulb stays the same because the currents the same and they both have the same brightness.
All right so that's it for the first problem.
Hopefully you understand that one.